

Unix, sockets, Node.js

-2) A UNIX socket is an inter-process communication mechanism that allows bidirectional data exchange between processes running on the same machine.
7

https://medium.com/@copyconstruct/the-method-to-epolls-madness-d9d2d6378642

-1)A socket an abstraction. It provides a interface for applications to utilize a system resource (in this case the network connection) in a way that allows the operating system to mediate and organize the use of a limited resource by any number of applications.
https://stackoverflow.com/questions/27770556/does-node-js-use-thread-per-socket-connection

A kernel connects the application software to the hardware of a computer.

0) In the simplest terms, a socket is a pseudo-file that represents a network connection. 
Once a socket has been created (using the proper primitives, and the proper parameters to identify the other host),
writes to the socket are turned into network packets that get sent out, and data received from the network can be read from the socket.

In one regard, sockets are very similar to pipes: they look just like files to the programs using them, but do not result in read or writes to a disk; rather, they allow communicating with another program (local in the case of pipes, and possibly remote in the case of sockets)

1) A file descriptor is just an integer associated with an open file and it can be a network connection,
 a text file, a terminal, or something else

2)Commands such as read() and write() work with sockets in the same way they do with files and pipes.

3) 
Stream Sockets − Delivery in a networked environment is guaranteed. If you send through the stream socket three items "A, B, C", they will arrive in the same order − "A, B, C". These sockets use TCP (Transmission Control Protocol) for data transmission. If delivery is impossible, the sender receives an error indicator. Data records do not have any boundaries.

Datagram Sockets − Delivery in a networked environment is not guaranteed. They're connectionless because you don't need to have an open connection as in Stream Sockets − you build a packet with the destination information and send it out. They use UDP (User Datagram Protocol).

4) The term middleware originates form teh client server architectural model

5

6) IP address is use to identify a host or a group of hosts in a network while port number is used to identify a particular service running in a host

7) CONNECT( )    create a connection to a server (http, tcp, etc)
8) BIND( ) assign  local IP address to a socket (port number (service on a system on the larger internet)


9) Listen ()    The listen function converts an unconnected socket into a passive socket, indicating that the kernel should accept incoming connection requests directed to this socket.

when is node multithreaded?
  -> file io
  -> dns lookup in get

default thread pool size = 4

Low resource cost per connection
polling for connecions (tell the kernel what we are interested in, give kernal a way to notify us)
